airlifting orangutangs into some of the
most inaccessible forests on earth was a
logistical nightmare for loner but safe
Ares to release orangutangs are
increasingly hard to find over half a
Borneo's forest cover has already been
logged or cut down to make way for oil
palm plantations and still more has been
earmarked for development palm oil is
now the single biggest threat to the
orangutan survival but here right in
Borneo's heart areas of pristine forest
still exist there inaccessibility has
kept people out and would hopefully keep
mama abbott and her baby safe oh this is
great
this is just the spot nice open area in
the forest choppers gonna have no
problem getting in here and spoiling us
these moments are what the center is all
about seeing orangutangs being given the
opportunity of a new life not in a cage
or on an island but in the wild in a
forest that everyone hopes will never be
ripped from under them she's looking
there we go oh she's still a little bit
sleepy yeah there you go baby
that isn't much much better picture
isn't it now that's what we wanted to
see
right it's up to her now she's a this is
her second chance let's behave if you
want here I'll be sobbing I always do do
ya like a bit emotional about the whole
thing
yeah good you okay